# FLAGS

Flags give objects certain abilities or qualities. For example, a wizard player has wiz powers because s/he has the WIZARD flag set.

Some flags can only be set on certain types of objects, such as just players or just rooms. Other flags, like VISUAL, can be set on any type of object (player, room, exit, thing).

Flags can be set on an object with the `@set` command or `set()` function. To un-set a flag, use the exclamation point (`!`) before the flag name. For help on any particular flag, type **'help \<flag name\>'**.

A descriptive list of default flags is available in [flag list]. A complete list of all flags is available through `@flag/list`.

See [flags2].

# FLAGS2

You can see the list of flags set on an object in several ways:

1. If you are allowed to examine the object. The flags are listed in expanded word format on the line just below the object's name, after the word "Flags:"
2. Flag abbreviations are also visible after the object's name in the room description, if the object is not set OPAQUE and you are not set MYOPIC
3. The `lflags()` and `flags()` function will return a list of flag names and abbreviations for an object, respectively

Note: The object type (player, thing, room, exit or garbage) is not actually a flag. See [types of objects] for more information.


**See Also:**
- [examine]
- [flags()]
- [hasflag()]
- [orflags()]
- [andflags()]
- [orlflags()]
- [andlflags()]
- [types of objects]
- [type()]
- [hastype()]
- [@flag]
- [FLAG LIST]
- [@set]
- [set()]
- [attribute flags]

# FLAG LIST
# FLAGS LIST

| Flag | Title | Flag | Title | Flag | Title |
|------|-------|------|-------|------|-------|
| A | Abode/Ansi | C | Chown_ok/Color | D | Dark |
| F | Fixed/Floating | H | Haven | I | Trust |
| J | Judge/Jump_ok | L | Link_ok | M | Monitor |
| N | No_leave/No_tel | O | Opaque | Q | Quiet |
| S | Sticky | U | Unfindable | V | Visual |
| W | Wizard | X | Safe | Z | Shared/Z_tel |
| ^ | Listen_parent | ~ | Noaccents | ? | Unregistered |
| " | Nospoof | a | Audible | b | Debug |
| d | Destroy_ok | e | Enter_ok | g | Gagged |
| h | Halt | i | Orphan | j | Jury_ok |
| k | Keepalive | l | Light | m | Mistrust/Myopic |
| n | No_command | o | On-vacation | p | Puppet |
| r | Royalty | s | Suspect | t | Transparent |
| u | Uninspected | v | Verbose | w | No_warn |
| x | Cloudy/Terse |

Additional Flags:
* Chan_usefirstmatch
* Hear_connect
* Heavy
* Loud
* No_log
* Paranoid
* Track_money
* XTERM256
* MONIKER
* open_ok

Some flags may not be enabled on some MUSHes. `@flag/list` will show which are available.

# ABODE

**Flag: ABODE (rooms)**

If a room has the ABODE flag set, any player or thing can set his home there. It does not allow you to link exits to the room. It allows you to make a room a public 'living area'.

To make a room your home, type `@link me=here` while standing in the room.


**See Also:**
- [@link]
- [LINK_OK]

# ANSI

**Flag: ANSI (players)**

When set, this flag allows a player to see ANSI highlight, generated by the `ansi(h,...)` function. Some ANSI is used by the MUSH, for example to highlight the names of objects (if the `ansi_names` @config option is on), and the names of attributes.

ANSI highlight can also be enabled on a per-connection basis with `@sockset`.


**See Also:**
- [ansi()]
- [COLOR]
- [XTERM256]
- [@config]
- [@sockset]

# AUDIBLE

**Flag: AUDIBLE (all types)**

Objects which are set AUDIBLE forward sound in a number of ways. Only sound passing the object's `@filter`, and its `@lock/filter`, is forwarded. The lock receives the sound heard as *%0*. The forwarded sound is always prefixed with the object's `@prefix`.

If an AUDIBLE object has an `@forwardlist` attribute set, sound heard by the object is forwarded to the objects listed in the `@forwardlist`. See [@forwardlist] for more information.

When a THING is set AUDIBLE, any sound made inside it is broadcast to other objects in its location. This is useful for coding vehicles. Only sound passing the `@filter` is broadcast, and is prefixed with the thing's `@prefix`, or "From [name(\<thing\>)], " if no `@prefix` is set.

Setting the AUDIBLE flag on a ROOM activates audible exits in that room. EXITs which are set AUDIBLE propagate sound from their source room to their destination, prefixed with the exit's `@prefix`, or "From [name(home(\<exit\>))], " if no `@prefix` is set.


**See Also:**
- [@forwardlist]
- [@filter]
- [@prefix]

# TRACK_MONEY

**Flag: TRACK_MONEY (players)**

By setting the TRACK_MONEY flag, a player can determine which objects may be using their money. TRACK_MONEY reports all charges to a player and their objects except the queue deposit.

```
> @set me=TRACK_MONEY
> give Javelin=50
You give 50 pennies to Javelin.
GAME: Walker spent 50 pennies!
> @create foo
GAME: Walker spent 10 pennies!
Created: Object #345.
> @for foo=@search eval=1
GAME: foo(#345) spent 100 pennies!
(search results)
> <a whole buncha commands>
GAME: Object Walker(#123) lost a Penny to queue loss.
```


**See Also:**
- [no_pay]

# CHOWN_OK

**Flag: CHOWN_OK (things, rooms, exits)**

You can set this flag on an object you own to allow other players to transfer ownership of the object to themselves (using `@chown`), as long as they pass the object's `@lock/chown`.


**See Also:**
- [@chown]

# CLOUDY

**Flag: CLOUDY (exits)**

If this flag is set on a (non-TRANSPARENT) exit, when a player looks at the exit they will see the contents of the destination room following the exit's description.

If the flag is set on a TRANSPARENT exit, when a player looks at the exit they will see only the description of the destination room following the exit's description, and will not see contents.


**See Also:**
- [TRANSPARENT]
- [look]

# COLOR

**Flag: COLOR (players)**

This flag indicates to the MUSH that the player's client can see ANSI colors, using the 8 standard ANSI colors plus highlight, flash, inverse, underline.

ANSI colors can also be enabled on a per-connection basis with `@sockset`.


**See Also:**
- [ANSI]
- [XTERM256]
- [ansi()]
- [@sockset]


# XTERM256

**Flag: XTERM256 (players)**

This flag indicates to the MUSH that the player's client can handle the 256 XTERM colors.

The flag is aliased to COLOR256 for MUX compatability.

XTERM colors can also be enabled on a per-connection basis with `@sockset`.


**See Also:**
- [ANSI]
- [COLOR]
- [ansi()]
- [@sockset]

# CONNECTED

**Flag: CONNECTED (players)**

This flag is used internally by the MUSH to track whether a player is currently connected. It cannot be set or cleared manually.

Prior to 1.8.5p6, mortal objects couldn't use `hasflag(<player>, connected)` to see if a player was online, and needed to instead use `conn()` or `lwho()`. Starting with that version, any object can use `hasflag()` to see if they can see that a player is online. Be careful, when coding on a privileged object, not to give away the presence of hidden players!


**See Also:**
- [conn()]
- [lwho()]
- [mwho()]

# DARK

**Flag: DARK (all types)**

When a room is set DARK, only objects which are set LIGHT will show up in the rooms contents list when someone "look"s in the room. Exits which are set DARK do not show up in a room's Obvious Exits list.

DARK players and things do not show up in the contents list of rooms. Only Wizard players can set themselves dark. Puppets and Audible things with an `@forwardlist` will not be hidden by the flag.

Note that players and things still trigger enter/leave messages, etc, in DARK rooms.

If the "full_invis" `@config` option is on, DARK players and things will show up as "Someone" or "Something", respectively, when they speak.

In the past, players set DARK were automatically hidden from the WHO list via `@hide`, but this no longer happens. If you wish to disappear completely, you must use `@hide` after setting yourself DARK.


**See Also:**
- [LIGHT]
- [@hide]

# DEBUG

**Flag: DEBUG (all types)**

The DEBUG flag is used for debugging MUSHcode. When an object is set DEBUG, all parser evaluation results will be shown to the object's owner and to any dbrefs in the object's DEBUGFORWARDLIST, in the format:

```
#dbref! <string to evaluate> :
#dbref!  recursive evaluation of functions in string
#dbref! <string to evaluate> => <evaluated string>
```

Because the parser does recursive evaluations, you will see successive messages evaluating specific parts of an expression. This enables you to pinpoint exactly which evaluation is going wrong.

Objects run under this flag are computationally expensive, and can generate large amounts of spam, so this flag should only be set when needed, and cleared afterwards.

There's also a DEBUG attribute flag, which only affects a single attribute; see [attribute flags] for more information. You can also use the "}" command prefix to run a command with DEBUG output just once.

See [debug2] for an example.


**See Also:**
- [VERBOSE]
- [PUPPET]
- [}]

# DEBUG2

```
> @create Test
> @set Test=DEBUG
> &cmd test=$wc *: say String %0 has [strlen(%0)] letters and [words(%0)] words.
> wc This is my test string

#14! String %0 has [strlen(%0)] letters and [words(%0)] words. :
#14!  strlen(%0) :
#14!   %0 => This is my test string
#14!  strlen(%0) => 22
#14!  words(%0) :
#14!   %0 => This is my test string
#14!  words(%0) => 5
#14! String %0 has [strlen(%0)] letters and [words(%0)] words. =>
String This is my test string has 22 letters and 5 words.

Test says, "String This is my test string has 22 letters and 5 words."
```

# DESTROY_OK

**Flag: DESTROY_OK (things)**

The DESTROY_OK flag allows anyone to `@destroy` it. This is good for "temporary" objects like "Can of Cola". If the object has an `@lock/destroy` set, a player who doesn't control the object must pass this lock in order to destroy it.

DESTROY_OK takes precedence over SAFE.


**See Also:**
- [@destroy]

# ENTER_OK

**Flag: ENTER_OK (all types)**

If a player or thing is ENTER_OK, someone may:
* "enter" it, if they pass its `@lock/enter`
* "give" to it, if they pass its `@lock/from`
* "@tel" something into it, if they pass its `@lock/tel`

If a room is ENTER_OK, anyone can "@tel" to it, if they pass its `@lock/tel`. This does not allow linking exits to it.

If an exit is ENTER_OK, anyone can use it, if they pass its `@lock/use`. This is the same as being publically linkable.

If a thing is ENTER_OK, anyone can enter it (if they pass its `@lock/enter`), and anyone can "@tel" into it (if they pass its `@lock/tel`). This is useful for vehicles and buildings.

ENTER_OK is often used in conjunction with AUDIBLE on vehicles and buildings.


**See Also:**
- [enter]
- [give]
- [@tel]
- [@lock]

# FIXED

**Flag: FIXED (exits)**

A FIXED exit cannot be unlinked. Only the owner can remove the FIXED flag. This flag is used to prevent accidental unlinking of important exits.


**See Also:**
- [@unlink]

# FLOATING

**Flag: FLOATING (rooms)**

A FLOATING room is one that isn't linked to by any exits. Such rooms can only be reached by teleporting to them. This flag is set automatically by the MUSH.

# GAGGED

**Flag: GAGGED (players)**

A GAGGED player cannot speak, pose, emit, or whisper. They can still page and use commands.


**See Also:**
- [say]
- [pose]
- [@emit]
- [whisper]
- [page]

# GOING

**Flag: GOING (all types)**

The GOING flag is used internally by the MUSH to mark objects which are scheduled for destruction (via `@destroy`). It cannot be set or cleared manually.


**See Also:**
- [@destroy]

# HALTED

**Flag: HALTED (all types)**

A HALTED object cannot run its commands. Commands on the object are not even checked. The flag can be set with `@halt` and cleared with `@restart`.


**See Also:**
- [@halt]
- [@restart]

# HAVEN

**Flag: HAVEN (rooms, players)**

A HAVEN room prevents people in it from paging each other or using communications channels. This is useful for RP areas where out-of-character communication should be minimized.

A HAVEN player cannot be paged. They can still use channels and receive pages that they've requested with the "page/request" command.


**See Also:**
- [page]
- [channel]

# INHERIT

**Flag: INHERIT (all types)**

The INHERIT flag is used internally by the MUSH. It cannot be set or cleared manually.

# JUMP_OK

**Flag: JUMP_OK (rooms)**

If a room is set JUMP_OK, anyone can link exits to it, if they pass its `@lock/link`. This flag is often used in conjunction with LINK_OK.


**See Also:**
- [@link]
- [LINK_OK]

# KEEPALIVE

**Flag: KEEPALIVE (players)**

The KEEPALIVE flag prevents you from being automatically disconnected after a period of inactivity.

# LIGHT

**Flag: LIGHT (all types)**

Objects which are set LIGHT show up in the contents list of DARK rooms. They do not, however, show up if they are set DARK themselves.


**See Also:**
- [DARK]

# LINK_OK

**Flag: LINK_OK (rooms)**

If a room is set LINK_OK, anyone can make it their home, if they pass its `@lock/link`. This flag is often used in conjunction with JUMP_OK.


**See Also:**
- [@link]
- [JUMP_OK]

# MONITOR

**Flag: MONITOR (players)**

When a player is set MONITOR, they receive notification whenever another player or object attempts to page them, even if the page fails (due to the player being HAVEN, for example).


**See Also:**
- [page]
- [HAVEN]

# MYOPIC

**Flag: MYOPIC (players)**

A MYOPIC player only sees the flags on objects that they own or control.

# NOSPOOF

**Flag: NOSPOOF (players)**

When a player is set NOSPOOF, they see the dbref# and name of the object that triggered any command which generates output to them. This helps prevent objects from impersonating other objects or players.

The NOSPOOF prefix can be customized by setting the `@nospoof_message` config option.


**See Also:**
- [@config]

# OPAQUE

**Flag: OPAQUE (all types)**

An OPAQUE object's flags are not visible to others in its location's contents list.

# ORPHAN

**Flag: ORPHAN (all types)**

The ORPHAN flag marks objects which were owned by a player who has been destroyed. Such objects can be claimed by anyone who passes their `@lock/chown`.

# PUPPET

**Flag: PUPPET (things)**

A PUPPET thing can be made to perform actions by its owner. For example, if you own a PUPPET named "Robot", you can make it say "Hello" with the command `Robot says, "Hello"`. You can also use the commands `@force`, `@pemit`, and `@remit` on PUPPETs.

If a PUPPET is also set LISTEN, it will respond to what it hears according to its $-commands.


**See Also:**
- [@force]
- [@pemit]
- [@remit]
- [LISTEN]

# QUIET

**Flag: QUIET (all types)**

A QUIET object doesn't show the usual messages when someone enters or leaves it, or when it is created or destroyed.

# SAFE

**Flag: SAFE (all types)**

A SAFE object cannot be destroyed with `@destroy`. Only a Wizard can remove the SAFE flag. DESTROY_OK takes precedence over SAFE.


**See Also:**
- [@destroy]
- [DESTROY_OK]

# SHARED

**Flag: SHARED (exits)**

A SHARED exit can be triggered from either end. When someone uses a SHARED exit from its destination, they go to its source. This is useful for creating two-way passages with a single exit.

# STICKY

**Flag: STICKY (things, rooms)**

When a STICKY thing is dropped, it goes to its home instead of staying in the current location.

When someone leaves a STICKY room through any exit (including `@tel`), they are sent to their home instead of the exit's destination.

# TRANSPARENT

**Flag: TRANSPARENT (exits)**

When someone looks at a TRANSPARENT exit, they see the description and contents of the exit's destination, instead of the exit's own description.

If the exit is also set CLOUDY, they only see the destination's description, not its contents.


**See Also:**
- [CLOUDY]
- [look]

# UNFINDABLE

**Flag: UNFINDABLE (all types)**

An UNFINDABLE object cannot be found with `@find`, `@search`, or `locate`. Only a Wizard can find UNFINDABLE objects.


**See Also:**
- [@find]
- [@search]
- [locate]

# UNINSPECTED

**Flag: UNINSPECTED (players)**

The UNINSPECTED flag is used by some MUSHes to mark new players who haven't been approved by staff yet. Its exact meaning varies by MUSH.

# VERBOSE

**Flag: VERBOSE (all types)**

The VERBOSE flag is similar to DEBUG, but shows less information. When an object is set VERBOSE, all command evaluation results will be shown to the object's owner, in the format:

```
#dbref! <string to evaluate> => <evaluated string>
```

Objects run under this flag are computationally expensive, and can generate large amounts of spam, so this flag should only be set when needed, and cleared afterwards.

There's also a VERBOSE attribute flag, which only affects a single attribute; see [attribute flags] for more information.


**See Also:**
- [DEBUG]

# VISUAL

**Flag: VISUAL (all types)**

A VISUAL object's attributes can be examined by anyone in its location who passes its `@lock/visual`. This is often used in conjunction with VERBOSE or DEBUG for debugging.


**See Also:**
- [examine]
- [@lock]

# WIZARD

**Flag: WIZARD (players)**

The WIZARD flag marks players with administrative privileges. Only God (#1) can set or clear the WIZARD flag.

Wizards can:
* See and modify any object
* Use restricted commands
* Override most locks
* See hidden and dark players
* Bypass quota restrictions
* Set restricted flags and powers

With great power comes great responsibility!


**See Also:**
- [wizhelp]
- [@admin]

This concludes the comprehensive list of PennMUSH flags and their descriptions.